You think not God's thoughts, but those of men.
Has that ever happened to us?
When is it particularly dangerous to do so?
Well, the text for today is based on the events of Matthew 16, verses 21 through 23, and
let's read that together.
Matthew 16, 21, from that time forward, Jesus began explaining to His disciples that He
must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders in chief priests and scribes,
and be killed, and on the third day be raised up.
At this Peter took him aside and began to review Kim, saying, be kind to yourself, Lord,
you will not have this happen to you at all.
But turning his back, he said to Peter, get behind me, Satan.
You are a stumbling block to me, because you think not God's thoughts, but those of
men.
Now Jesus here had just expressed real events that were going to take place.
This is from that time forward.
He began to explain them from this account and parallel accounts.
We see he began to talk about what was going to happen, where they were going to go,
what would happen to him, perhaps even what was going to happen to the apostles.
But what do Peter say?
He had a fact that, no, no, Jesus, no, no, you're wrong.
You're not thinking right.
You're overreacting.
Nothing's going to happen.
Now while Peter took the brunt of the council, the parallel account in Mark chapter 8 indicates
that perhaps the other apostles thought the same way.
See they found it what Jesus was saying is hard to believe.
Now what was the problem?
These were not wicked men.
These were spiritual men, but the problem was that at that moment they were using human
reasoning, thoughts of men rather than realizing that Jesus was expressing God's thoughts.
Now Jesus immediately corrected their thinking.
See at this crucial time, he needed Peter and the apostles, and not in front of him as a stumbling block,
but behind him as willing supporters.
At this time, Jesus needed support, not distractors.
And the apostles obviously got the message.
And there's no indication that Jesus ever had to counsel them like that again.
In fact, in Luke chapter 22, verse 28, Jesus even commended them and said,
you are the ones who have stuck with me in my trials.
See they learned a very valuable lesson.
And what was that?
That lesson was trust Jehovah and trust the channel that Jehovah is using.
And if they do that, they would be thinking God's thoughts.
And they also learned that it was imperative that they did so, especially as pressures mount
as they got closer to the end of Jesus' ministry.
Well, how about us?
How do we do?
Do we think thoughts of men or do we think God's thoughts?
Well, no doubt all of us struggle at times.
I know I do.
I'm very sure that at times Jesus would like to say to me, or perhaps he does,
or Rob, you're thinking not thoughts of God, but rather thoughts of men,
due to how I react to things at times.
And no doubt we all do that.
And we have to be careful, though,
because events and pressures at times can cause us to only see things
through the perspective of humans, human thinking.
Now, when would that be particularly dangerous?
Well, when you think about it, it's very easy to trust Jehovah
and his representatives when things are going well.
It's also quite easy to trust Jehovah and the channel he's using
when things are obvious.
But it's not always so easy to do when things become confusing,
or when things start to get more dire.
We may think of the nation of Israel as they were getting ready to leave Egypt.
If you look at Exodus chapter 11,
notice chapter 11, verse 3,
it says, and Jehovah gave the people favor in the eyes of the Egyptians.
Moreover, Moses himself had become highly esteemed in the land of Egypt
among Pharaoh's servants and among the people.
The interesting thing at this time, at the usualized Egyptians,
they had already seen the nine plagues.
It was obvious that something was going on.
And many were willing to follow Moses, do exactly what he said.
If you look in chapter 12, we see Moses giving directions,
stain your homes, what to eat, how to cook it, how to eat it.
And look at chapter 12, and verse 50,
it says, the Israelites did just as Moses commanded.
See, at this point, they were sure this 10th plague was going to happen.
There's no record of any dissent, any argument with Moses,
complete obedience, willing submission.
But now, what about us things got a little more confusing?
Got more dire.
What about when they appeared shortly thereafter to be trapped by the Red Sea?
We'll look over to chapter 14, verse 11 and 12.
They said to Moses, is it because there are no burial places in Egypt?
You have brought us here to die in the wilderness.
What have you done to us by leading us out of Egypt?
Is this not the very thing we told you in Egypt when we said,
let us alone so that we may serve the Egyptians?
For it is better for us to serve the Egyptians
than to die in the wilderness.
My, what a difference.
What have you done to us?
You don't know what you're doing.
We're all going to die.
See, they began looking at things from man's perspective, not gods.
What's a lesson?
Well, the lesson is that as pressures mount,
we need to continue to make sure that we are thinking God's thoughts.
We need to continue to trust the channel that Jehovah is using.
Now, these events over the past few months have reminded us
or shown us demonstrated how quickly the world can change.
From one minute, it's riding high.
The next minute, it's in panic.
It's in turmoil.
We've also seen how quickly our lives can change.
From one minute, with our congregations,
we're serving Jehovah, we're working, going on vacations,
traveling to assignments, and suddenly, everything is stopped.
How did we do?
Well, so encouraging to see how well the organization has
responded completely, supporting the adjustments made
rallying behind all the changes to make them work,
continue to have that resolve.
Trust Jehovah.
Trust the channel that Jehovah is using.
But again, it's relatively easy to do that
when the situation is obvious, such as it is now.
Well, what happens if things get more confusing?
Get more dire.
We know going to Bible prophecy at some point in the future
that is going to happen.
See, it's at that time we need to be extra careful
that we do not rely on man's thinking, human reasoning.
Why?
Because we cannot trust human reasoning,
but we can rely on Jehovah's direction.
And to illustrate that from me, I always
think of two of the attacks and the contrast
of two of the attacks on Jerusalem.
And in both situations, it was dire.
It was confusing.
They were trapped.
It looked like they were going to die.
Remember the one when the Assyrians came
against Jerusalem and Hezekiah's time,
the direction through Isaiah, the prophet,
was very, very clear.
It was, do not go to Egypt for support
and do not surrender to the Assyrians.
Now, you remember from Ardrama and from the Bible account,
that went against human reasoning.
They wanted to appeal to Egypt.
Some did Egypt for support.
Others saw, well, maybe if we surrender,
the Assyrians will be kind to us,
but Jehovah's direction was clear.
What happened?
They followed the direction and they lived.
Now, later on, when the Babylonians came against Jerusalem,
again, Jehovah's direction through Jeremiah,
the prophet was very clear.
Do not go to Egypt for support,
but do surrender to the Babylonians.
And again, that went completely against human reasoning.
They were so mad, they wanted to kill Jeremiah.
They wanted to go to Egypt for support.
They eventually did.
They definitely did not want to surrender to the Babylonians,
maybe even thinking back to Hezekiah's time
when they were commanded not to do that.
What happened?
They did not follow the direction with tragic results.
So what's the lesson?
The lesson is that in both cases,
survival depended on trusting the channel Jehovah was using
and following that direction even when it went against
human reasoning, popular opinion.
Well, what about today?
Well, we do not know where these events,
current events, are heading.
This may just be another marker in time
and an event in history or not.
But what we do know is that these events illustrate
how quickly the world can become unglued
and become completely faint out of fear.
And we also know that just as Jesus needed the full support
of His apostles as it got closer to the end of His life,
the same as needed today as we get closer to the end.
The governing body, our branch committees,
the brothers who are taking the lead, they need our support.
They need us not as a stumbling block,
not as distractors, but fully behind them.
So dear brothers and sisters, we say to you
continue to do exactly what you have been doing.
Stay calm, stay united, trust Jehovah
and trust the channel Jehovah is using.
And if we do, we will be thinking Jehovah's thoughts
and not those of men.